Mtm 47906 oauth configuration (#656)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/users-guide/administration-bundle/configuring-single-sign-on.md

The content looks like this:

```
{
    "typ": "JWT",
    "alg": "RS256",
    "x5t": "2ZQpJ3UpbjAYXYGaXEJl8lV0TOI",
    "kid": "2ZQpJ3UpbjAYXYGaXEJl8lV0TOI"
} {
    "aud": "7fd1ed48-f4b6-4362-b0af-2b753bb1af2b",
    "iss": "https://sts.windows.net/4d17551b-e234-4e18-9593-3fe717102dfa/",
    "iat": 1660815959,
    "nbf": 1660815959,
    "exp": 1660820080,
    "acr": "1",
    "aio": "ASQA2/8TAAAAg0xPUeu6HKAlgK3vZJsW8TdejlNB3BGSz4XFmJLzPt0=",
    "amr": [
        "pwd"
    ],
    "appid": "7fd1ed48-f4b6-4362-b0af-2b753bb1af2b",
    "appidacr": "1",
    "family_name": "Doe",
    "given_name": "Jane",
    "ipaddr": "51.116.186.93",
    "name": "Jane Doe",
    "oid": "afbff765-592e-4ae1-9334-b968dad59c84",
    "rh": "0.AXkAG1UXTTTiGE6Vkz_nFxAt-kjt0X-29GJDsK8rdTuxryuUAAw.",
    "scp": "openid User.Read User.Read.All User.ReadBasic.All",
    "sub": "zRTnTukAjU11ME1aqiPMOdwk9jVNmInXbeuoUr_3cYk",
    "tid": "4d17551b-e234-4e18-9593-3fe717102dfa",
    "unique_name": "jane@admtest.onmicrosoft.com",
    "upn": "jane@admtest.onmicrosoft.com",
    "uti": "IcTqpKPIA0G_P1Lyw6xBAA",
    "ver": "1.0"
} [
    256 crypto bytes
]
```

> You can now use the claims to map user attributes and give permissions in the same way as described in the section on the [custom template] (#custom-template).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can now use the claims to map user attributes and give permissions in the same way as described in the section on the [custom template](#custom-template).
```

{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

Specifying a logout request is optional. It performs [front-channel single logout](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-frontchannel-1_0.html). If configured, the user is redirected to the defined authorization server logout URL after logging out from {{< product-c8y-iot >}}.

![Custom logout request](/images/users-guide/Administration/sso-custom-logout-request.png)

The **Basic** section of the **Single sign-on** page consists of the following configuration settings:

![Custom basic configuration](/images/users-guide/Administration/sso-custom-basic.png)

|Field|Description|
|:---|:---|
|Redirect URI|Redirect parameter. Can be used in request definitions as a ${redirectUri} placeholder
|Client ID|OAuth connection client ID. Can be used in request definitions as a ${clientId} placeholder
|Button name|Name displayed on the button on the **Login** page
|Issuer|OAuth token issuer
|Provider name|Name of the provider

> |Visible on Login page|Indicates whether the login option is enabled or not.

Author: ```suggestion
|Visible on Login page|Indicates whether the login option is enabled or not
```

4. Select the client used in the SSO configuration.
5. Set the **Admin URL** to "https://mytenant.{{< domain-c8y >}}/user/keycloak"

To use the logout all users feature follow these steps:

1. Go to the administrator console.
2. Select the realm used in the SSO configuration for the tenant.
3. Navigate to the **Sessions** tab in the **Manage** section and click **Logout all**.

Note that the logout event for all users is only performed in the scope of one Keycloak realm.
Moreover, it is only sent for those tenants where the client being used as a configuration for the SSO feature has the correct **Admin URL** value.

In the **Session** tab, the Keycloak administrator can also check how many active sessions exist on the respective client and estimate how many tenants and users will be affected by the logout event.

To confirm if the logout event for all users or a single user has been received by the tenant, the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} administrator can verify if there is information about the logout event in the audit logs. The audit logs are available in the Administration application under **Accounts** in the **Audit Logs** tab.

> #### Cumulocity IoT configuration

Author: @Michal-Bak Is this paragraph now now no longer required as we have the new section starting in line 232? Except of the section on single logout, which I could move to the top.

Reviewer 2: yes, it seems that this paragraph has duplicated information. Please remove this paragraph but move up the information about single logout. Thank you

* **Trusted user agents** - this list is empty by default. If some user agent is added, all the HTTP requests containing this entry in the `User-Agent` header and having a valid basic authentication date will be accepted.
* **Forbidden user agents** - this list is empty by default. If some user agent is added, all the HTTP requests containing this entry in the `User-Agent` header and using basic authentication will be rejected.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
If the user agent is not found in the list of trusted or forbidden user agents then {{< product-c8y-iot >}} will try to verify if it is a web browser using an external library.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

#### OAI-Secure

OAI-Secure is a more secure alternative to the Basic Auth mode that also supports username and password login. In OAI-Secure mode the credentials in the initial request are exchanged for a JWT token that is set as a cookie in the web browser or returned in the response body. Based on the configuration OAI-Secure can support full session management or work as a standard JWT authentication where the user session lifetime is limited by the token expiration time.

> ##### OAI-Secure without the configuration related to the session management (session configuration turned off)

Author: Will leave this for now as these heading do not show up in any index

When there is no configuration related to the session, OAI-Secure issues a JWT token with a certain lifetime. If the token expires then the user is forced to re-login because token refresh is not supported. This behavior is very inconvenient for the user if the token lifetime is short because the user is forced to re-login frequently.  

##### OAI-Secure with the configuration of the session management (session configuration turned on)

Using OAI-Secure with session configuration is more convenient and secure, and can be used to achieve a behavior which is similar to the authentication based on HTTP sessions.

> The OAI-Secure token acts as a session identifier on the client site (web browser). Such a token identifier which is stored in the cookie can have a preconfigured short lifetime. Then, the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform is responsible for renewing the session identifier without a user interaction. It is sufficient that the user's action causes the web browser to send a request to {{< product-c8y-iot >}}. Then, {{< product-c8y-iot >}} can examine if the renewing of the session identifier should be executed and perform the operation if necessary. {{< product-c8y-iot >}} offers extensive configuration related to this behavior so that tenant administrators can adjust the configuration to their needs.

Author: fixed

If the **Use session configuration** option is enabled, the following settings can be configured on tenant level by a tenant administrator:

<table>
<col width="200">
<col width="600">
<col width="200">
<thead>
<tr>
<th style="text-align:left">Field</th>
<th style="text-align:left">Description</th>
<th style="text-align:left">Default</th>
</tr>
</thead>
<tbody>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:left">User agent validation required</td>
<td style="text-align:left">If turned on, the user agent sent in headers of consecutive requests in the scope of one session will be compared and a request with changed user agent will not be authorized.</td>
<td style="text-align:left">false</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:left">Session absolute timeout</td>
<td style="text-align:left">Defines the maximum period of time that the user can use {{< product-c8y-iot >}} without having to re-authenticate.</td>
<td style="text-align:left">14 days</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:left">Session renewal timeout</td>

> <td style="text-align:left">Expected to be much shorter than the absolute timeout. Defines the time after which the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} tries to provide a new token (session identifier). The renewal may take place only when {{< product-c8y-iot >}} receives an HTTP request from a client with a non-expired token and the period of time between obtaining the token and the execution of the request is greater than the renewal timeout.</td>

Author: fixed

<td style="text-align:left">1 day</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:left">Maximum parallel sessions per user</td>
<td style="text-align:left">Defines the maximum number of sessions which can be started by each user (for example on different machines or browsers). When a user exceeds this limit, then the oldest session will be terminated and the user will be logged out on this particular device.</td>
<td style="text-align:left">5 sessions</td>
</tr>
<tr>
<td style="text-align:left">Token lifespan</td>

> <td style="text-align:left">Defines the time for which a token is active. The user is able to  access the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} only with a valid token. This configuration option is always available, it does not depend on session configuration. See <a href="#token-settings" class="no-ajaxy">Token and cookie settings</a> below. </td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
<td style="text-align:left">Defines the time for which a token is active. The user is only able to access {{< product-c8y-iot >}} with a valid token. This configuration option is always available, it does not depend on session configuration. See <a href="#token-settings" class="no-ajaxy">Token and cookie settings</a> below.</td>
```

 * **Token lifespan**: 5400 seconds (90 minutes)

In such configurations, the idle timeout is in the range of 45 to 90 minutes, depending on when the last activity for the session was performed.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

During the session token renewal the previous token is revoked and a new one is provided. The parameter `renewal token delay` defines the delay used to make this process smooth and not disturbing for the user. The old token is still valid for this period (1 minute by default). This way both tokens, old and new, are accepted by {{< product-c8y-iot >}}. This parameter is only configurable on platform level and cannot be modified by the tenant administrator.

<a name="token-settings"></a>

#### Token generation with OAI-Secure

OAI-Secure is primarily based on JWT stored in a browser cookie. It can be also used to generate JWT in the response body.
The lifespan of the tokens and the cookie is configurable by tenant options belonging to the category `oauth.internal`.

##### Lifespan configuration of JWT stored in the cookie

JWT tokens stored in the browser cookie have a default validity time of two weeks.
This can be changed with tenant options:

>  - category: `oauth.internal`;

Reviewer: ```suggestion

 - category: `oauth.internal`;
```

 - key: `basic-token.lifespan.seconds`;

The minimum allowed value is 5 minutes.

##### Lifespan configuration of cookies

Cookies used to store a JWT token in a browser have their own validity time that can be changed with tenant options:
- category: `oauth.internal`;
- key: `basic-user.cookie.lifespan.seconds`;

> The default value is two weeks. It can also be set to any negative value so that the cookie will be deleted when the user closes the browser.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The default value is two weeks. To have the cookie deleted when the user closes the browser, set it to any negative value.
```

Author: Fixed

##### Lifespan configuration of JWT in response body

The lifespan of JWT tokens generated in the response body is configured with the following tenant options:

> - category: `oauth.internal`;

Reviewer: ```suggestion

- category: `oauth.internal`;
```

- key: `body-token.lifespan.seconds`;

Refer to the [Tenant API](https://{{< domain-c8y >}}/api/{{< c8y-current-version >}}/#tag/Tenant-API) in the {{< openapi >}} for more details.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
If external communication to the {{< management-tenant >}} has been blocked, then it is only possible to access the tenant in a secure way (for example via SSH tunnel). This means that you can just as well use basic authentication. Additionally, it is not possible to use single sign-on since the communication from the external authorization server is also blocked. Therefore, the authentication method is automatically set to "Basic authentication" if the {{< management-tenant >}} is configured to block external communication.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

#### TFA settings

Select the checkbox **Allow two-factor authentication** if you want to allow TFA in your tenant (only possible for administrators).

You may select one of the following options:

* **SMS-based**, supporting the following settings:
	- **Limit token validity for**: Lifetime of each session in minutes. When the session expires or a user logs out, the user must enter a new verification code.

>    - **Limit verification code validity for**: Here you can set the lifetime of each verification code sent via SMS. When the verification code expires, the user must request a new verification code in order to login.

Reviewer: indentation seems to be off

   <br><br>

	{{< c8y-admon-info >}}

> An SMS gateway microservice must be configured for the tenant. Naturally only users with a valid phone number associated can use this functionality.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An SMS gateway microservice must be configured for the tenant. Only users with a valid phone number associated can use this functionality.
```

* **Google Authenticator** (Time-based One-Time Password = TOTP), supporting the following setting:
	 - **Enforce TOTP two-factor authentication on all users**: When enabled it will force all users to set up their TFA on login. Otherwise each individual user can choose to activate it or not.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
The TOTP method is only available with the login mode "OAI-Secure".
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

Click **Save TFA settings** to apply your settings.

{{< c8y-admon-important >}}
Each time you change the TFA method you will be forced to log out. User TFA settings are cleared and must be configured again.
{{< /c8y-admon-important >}}

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}
Users with a "devices" role are excluded from TFA and TOTP. This is also true when TOTP is enforced for all users.
{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

<a name="configuring-single-sign-on"></a>
### Configuring single sign-on

{{< product-c8y-iot >}} provides single sign-on functionality, that allows a user to login with a single 3rd-party authorization server using the OAuth2 protocol, for example Azure Active Directory. Currently authorization code grant is supported only with access tokens in form of JWT.

{{< c8y-admon-info >}}

> This feature is built on top of cookies technology. To be able to use it, you must have cookies enabled in the settings of your browser.

Reviewer: "on top of", or rather "with"?

{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

This feature is enabled since {{< product-c8y-iot >}} version 10.4.6. For correct behavior any microservice needs to use the microservice SDK with version 10.4.6 or later.

Before switching to the single sign-on option it is mandatory that:

* The authorization server you use supports OAuth2 authorization code grant.
* The access token is issued as JWT and you know what goes into the token content.
* The JWT must consist of a unique user identifier, "iss" (issuer), "aud" (audience) and "exp" (expiration time) fields.
* The {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform is in version 10.4.6 but preferably higher.

> * All microservices are build with Microservice Java SDK 10.4.6 but preferably higher. For custom-built microservices, refer to [General aspects > Security](/microservice-sdk/concept/#security) in the *Microservice SDK guide*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* All microservices are built with Microservice Java SDK version 10.4.6 but preferably higher. For custom-built microservices, refer to [General aspects > Security](/microservice-sdk/concept/#security) in the *Microservice SDK guide*.
```

also not really sure about "but preferably" (here and the previous line), instead of just "or"

Author: fixed

{{< /c8y-admon-info >}}

Specifying a logout request is optional. It performs [front-channel single logout](https://openid.net/specs/openid-connect-frontchannel-1_0.html). If configured, the user is redirected to the defined authorization server logout URL after logging out from {{< product-c8y-iot >}}.

![Custom logout request](/images/users-guide/Administration/sso-custom-logout-request.png)

The **Basic** section of the **Single sign-on** page consists of the following configuration settings:

![Custom basic configuration](/images/users-guide/Administration/sso-custom-basic.png)

|Field|Description|
|:---|:---|
|Redirect URI|Redirect parameter. Can be used in request definitions as a ${redirectUri} placeholder
|Client ID|OAuth connection client ID. Can be used in request definitions as a ${clientId} placeholder
|Button name|Name displayed on the button on the **Login** page
|Issuer|OAuth token issuer
|Provider name|Name of the provider

> |Visible on Login page|Indicates whether the login option is enabled or not.

Reviewer: only line with a period at the end - intended?

Author: fixed

|Audience|Expected aud parameter of JWT

Each time a user logs in, the content of the access token is verified and is a base for user access to the {{< product-c8y-iot >}} platform. The following section provides the mapping between JWT claims and access to the platform.

 ![Custom access mapping](/images/users-guide/Administration/sso-custom-access-mapping.png)

 In the example above, if a user tries to login a decoded JWT claims look like:

```json
{
...

> "user": "john.wick",

Reviewer: john wick might be problematic because of copyrights...

Author: Will eave this for now as we have this in many other places, especially in the screenshots: needs to be handled carefully in a separate ticket
